---
title: Subscriptions
description: Configure the subscriptions with Stripe.
navigation:
  icon: i-lucide-credit-card
---

::tip
---
target: _blank
to: https://stripe.com
---
You can check out the official **Stripe** documentation for more information.
::

## Stripe

Before configuring the subscriptions, you need to create a [Stripe account](https://stripe.com){target="_blank"}

### Secret Key

To configure the subscriptions with Stripe, you need to set the `NUXT_STRIPE_SECRET_KEY` environment variable in your `.env` file.

```json [.env]
NUXT_STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=your_stripe_secret_key
```

You can get your Stripe secret key by creating a project on your account and go to the `Developers` section and then `API keys`.
Secret key begins with `sk_test_` or `sk_live_`.

### Webhooks

To configure the subscriptions with Stripe, you need to set the `NUXT_STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET` environment variable in your `.env` file.

```json [.env]
NUXT_STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=your_stripe_webhook_secret
```

First, go to the `Developers` section and then `Webhooks` on your Stripe account.

#### Local

You can get your Stripe webhook secret and trigger events by clicking on the `Add local listener` button and follow those steps:

- Download the Stripe CLI from the [Stripe CLI](https://stripe.com/docs/stripe-cli){target="_blank"}.
- Run the following command in your terminal to listen for events.
```bash
stripe listen --forward-to {NUXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL}/api/webhooks/stripe
```
- Copy the webhook secret and set it in your `.env` file.

#### Production

You can get your Stripe webhook secret by clicking on the `Add endpoint` button and follow those steps:

- Set the endpoint URL to `{NUXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL}/api/webhooks/stripe`.
- Select the events you want to listen to. Currently we only need the `checkout.session.completed` and `invoice.payment_succeeded` events.
- Copy the webhook secret and set it in your `.env` file.

### Price cards

You need to fill `stripeIds.monthly` and `stripeIds.yearly` in your `app.config.ts` file for the pro and business plans.

- Go to the `Product catalogue` section on your Stripe account.
- Create a new product for your plan (for exemple: `Pro`).
- Create a new price for your plan. Set up the details like the price, currency, and billing period (monthly or yearly)
- Click on `Copy price ID` by clicking on the `...` button in the `Pricing` table of your product.
- Paste the price ID in your `app.config.ts` file for the corresponding plan.
- Don't forget to set the `prices.monthly` and `prices.yearly` in your `app.config.ts` file with corresponding prices.

Price ID begins with `price_`.

### Customer portal

User can manage their subscription in the customer portal provided by Stripe.

- You can personalize the customer portal by going to the `Settings`, `Business`, `Branding` and `Customer portal` sections on your Stripe account.

- If you want to allow users to switch plans via the customer portal, you need to enable it in the `Settings`, `Billing`, `Customer portal` section on your Stripe account. You need to enable `Customers can switch plans` and add the products (plans) you want to allow users to switch between.